The Joe Rogan experience. Also on the podcast,
just like you got, just to talk to you on almost meet them,
talk to them in person and realize that there's, you know,
there's people in this world that can make the impossible happen.
You interviewed him as well. Yeah. Twice. Yeah. Tell me what, what was.
That experience like for you?
So, uh, you know,
it was quite incredible in the sense that he is a legit engineer and
designer, which is like a pleasure for me. I've talked to a few CEOs,
talk to Eric Schmidt, just the CEOs.
And they're a little bit more business oriented. Elon is really,
really focused on the fundament,
like the first principles to like the physics level of the problems of being
solved, whether that's space X, with the fundamentals of rock,
reasonable rockets and, and, uh, you know,
going into deep space and colonizing Mars, whether that's in neural link. Sure.
The getting to the core of the fundamentals of what it's like to have a computer
communicate with the human brain and with Tesla on the battery side,
sort of saying he,
he threw away a lot of the conventional thinking about what's required to build
first of all, uh, an appealing car electric car,
but also one that's has a long range.
That's something I don't know as much about. But then on the AI side, just,
I mean, he boldly said from scratch,
we can build a system ourselves in a matter of months. Now,
a couple of years that's able to drive autonomously and most people would laugh
at that idea that most robotics has said no, from the DARPA challenges,
most of them, the hardest problem is he said, no, no, no, no. We're going to,
we're not only going to throw away LIDAR, which is laser based sensor.
We're going to say camera's only,
and we're going to use deep learning machine learning,
which is learning based system.
So it's a system that learns from scratch and we're going to teach it to drive
from eight cameras and so on.
So just talking to somebody like that was that not
the fact that he thinks like that.
I think it's just fun to talk to people like that. I don't meet them off.
And let's say, I don't know,
I'll stop this of thinking that this task is impossible. Let's say,
why is it impossible? Is it really impossible? Well,
you find out when you start to think about most problems from first principles
is that it's not actually impossible. And then you have to think, okay,
so how do we make it happen?
How do we create an infrastructure that allows you to learn from huge
amounts of data?
So one of the most revolutionary things that Tesla's doing and hopefully other
car companies will be doing is the over the air software updates.
Just like the update. The, you got the fact that just like on your phone,
you can get updates over time means you can have a learning system,
a machine learning based system that can learn and then deploy the thing and
learned over time and do that weekly. That sounds like maybe trivial,
but it's nobody else is doing it. And it's completely revolutionary. So cars,
once you buy them, they don't learn most cars. Tesla learns that.
That's a huge thing. I forget about us autopilot, all this stuff.
Just the fact that you could update the software.
I think there's a revolutionary idea.
And then they're also doing everything else from scratch.
This is the first principles type of thinking the hardware.
So the hardware in your car, I don't know when you got the Tesla,
but it should be hardware version too,
but that hardware performs what's called inference.
So it's already trained.
It's already learned its thing and it's just taking in the raw sensory input and
making decisions. Okay. They built that hardware themselves from scratch again,
ballsy move.
Now they're building what they're calling again. He's such a troll,
but they're calling dojo is the name of the,
the specialized hardware for training the neural net.
So training the models, what training is, is the learning side of it.
So they're building their own like supercomputer at Google has a TPU to improve
the training tape. You was a Stanford tensor processing unit.
It's a same thing as the more general and video has graphics processing unit.
GPU's that all the nerves, all the people like me have been using on, um,
for machine learning to train your own networks, uh,
it's what most also gamers use to play video games, right? But they have,
they have this nice quality that you can train huge neural networks on them.
Okay. TPU is, uh,
is a specialized hardware for training neural networks.
GPU is allow you to play video games and train your own networks.
TPU is clean some stuff up to make it more efficient, energy efficient,
more efficient for the kinds of computation y'all know, works need.
Google has them, a bunch of other companies have them, you know,
most co most car companies would be like, okay,
let me partner with somebody else to you from Google to use their TPS or use
NVIDIA's GPU's Tesla is building it from scratch.
So that kind of from scratch thinking is, is incredible.
And, um,
the other two things I really listen well that I like about Musk is,
uh, the hard work we live in a culture like so many people,
like I often don't sleep. I do crazy in terms of just focus,
stay up nights sometimes. And I'll often people recommend to me that, you know,
balance is really important. And taking a break is important.
Know that you re re rejuvenate yourself, you returned to with fresh ideas.
All those things are true. Sleep is important.
You had dead people on the podcast tell you how important sleep is,
but what most people don't don't advise me
is hard. Work is more important.
Passion is more important than all of those things like that should come first
and then sleep empowers it rest and powers that rejuvenation powers,
especially in engineering disciplines, hard work is everything.
And he's sort of unapologetically about that.
It's not like a come come to us, come work with us.
It'll be a friendly environment with free snacks. It's like,
you're going to work the hardest you've ever worked on whether you
agree with him or not on the most important problems of your life. Okay.
I like that kind of thinking, because it emphasizes the hard work.
The, the other part it was in terms of meeting them in person.
I don't know if you got the interact with that off,
because when he was on Mike with you, he was very, um, he was very kind of.
It's hard to bring it out of him in person before that he was very jovial and
friendly and huggy. He's great. And then once he got on the microphone,
I was like, oh, this is heavy lifting. Bring this out of him.
So then we started drinking, drinking, and then, oh yeah, it helps a lot.
And then once the drinking, you know, then, then I got to see who he is.
Yeah. That shouldn't have, I should've done that. But yeah, no,
I mean, the, the thing that's really interesting is he is gone.
If you look at his biography, like the kind of, uh,
stress he's been under in terms of, he's been at the brink of losing his,
his companies several times and he, you know,
he lost a child and he's just, he's a,
that's the other thing inspired me as, um,
is that he can be a good dad while running so many companies.
Because like I often wonder about, you know, the kind of hours I pull on,
what I'm doing. Can I have a family? Can I really give them?
Cause I'd love to be a father and can I have a family? Can I be a good part?
Like, can I.
Very, very, very, very difficult.
If you're working 18 hours a day to give your kids the time that they need, but.
It's possible not 18 hours. There's always, I believe in there's in life day,
months, maybe years that you have to do the 18 hours a day, but not always.
Yeah.
Right. Do the sprint sprints. Yeah.
And then establish everything and then sit back.
But the problem with a lot of guys like him is first of all,
it's very difficult to find a replacement for the way he thinks. Right.
So if he's, if he's a CEO of these companies and he's the one,
who's the mastermind behind all these things,
and then he wants to step back finding a commensurate replacement
is insanely difficult because most people who would be a
potential replacement are already off doing their own.
And there's not many people like him. That's an interesting,
that's a actually the disappointing thing to me is that he's a,
his kind of thinking is a, is a Verity. I'm not,
I'm not sure why that is exactly.
Well he's, I would joke around about it, but it,
I think there's a,
there's a spectrum of evolution and his mind is
clearly way more advanced than my mind. There's,
there's something going on in his mind, in terms of his, uh,
attraction to engineering issues,
solutions to global problems,
solutions to traffic problems, pollution problems, all the,
all the things that he's the internet. And he's trying to put,
he's trying to give the world internet. I mean,
he's got all these things going simultaneously.
And one of the things that I got out of,
and when I was talking to him was that he almost has a hard
time containing these ideas that are just pouring out of his
head, like a raging river.
Like he's trying to capture handfuls of water and is raging river of
ideas. That's going through his head, you know?
And when he described his childhood that he thought that everybody was like
that. And then as he got older, he thought he was insane. Yeah.
And I've, I can relate to that. I've I've, I'm trying to learn how to talk,
but I have trouble talking because, uh,
it's like a million ideas running in my head. Again,
anything you say I'll immediately start,
there's these like weird tangent that go off and I want to start thinking about
them.
That's true with a lot of people in your line of work.
And I think so. I think that's kind of puzzle solving.
Like that's where the comfort is.
I'm just surprised that a CEO is able to continue being that kind of puzzle
solver.
You see that tweet that he made about his plans.
Like you put a tweet up and I think it was 2006.
And then it's, he's essentially done all those things.
He's done all those things. Now, the thing is most people,
so a lot of people love you on Musk, but there's a,
quite a large community of people that don't love him so much.
Well, that's always the case. Not at all. I don't with anybody. Great.
I don't, I don't know.
If that's always the case. When is it not the case? Who does,
who accomplishes as many things as that guy does where everybody loves him?
It's a difficult, I mean, I'm not a historian.
And I could say it's a Steve jobs.
Terrible example. So many people hated that guy. So many people hated that guy.
I have personal friends that are involved in technology that wouldn't use apple
products because he's such a. It sure.
They didn't want to have anything to do with them.
They knew people that were engineers under him.
They said it was horrible and mean,
and it just required so much would scream at people and insult them.
And you know, it had these ideas in his head that he needed to get done.
And if you couldn't work the hours that you needed to do what he
wanted to accomplish, you know, he would treat you like. Yup.
You're right. I, I just wish the world was better. I think. Cause I,
it like with all people like that, like with Steve jobs and with Elon Musk,
when he dies, people will always you'll remember the greatness. Right?
Yeah. So that's, that's how it seems to work.
It's just sad that you can't celebrate that currently.
But I do think there's one particular aspect of his personality that I also
share that people off really bad, which is like you said,
um, he had a plan, but he's laid down that plan.
He keeps promising things and he keeps being like a year or two or three
late. And that really,
I don't know if it actually angers people or if people that already don't like,
you use that as a thing to say why they don't like you,
but it's certainly a thing that people say a lot. Yeah. And,
but I think that's an essential element of doing extremely difficult things is
over promising and trying to over-deliver that's the whole point is to
say, to make all the engineers around you believe that is doable in a year.
That's essential to do it in two years. So like that,
that kind of end truly believing it is, uh, it seems to be essential.
Didn't he have people pay full price for that Roadster.
Like you got on a list. Yes.
So you paid a quarter of a million dollars for a car that's essentially
vaporware. Yeah.
But the thing, so I don't know,
there's a little bunch of financial people that get like mad at that kind of
idea. Like there's investors, you know, it's like, it's,
I think it's the most shorted stock in history.
But he keeps kicking. I don't, this confuses the out of people.
To me it's the stock market is the most boring thing ever. And people it's,
it's a, it's a gambling. Yes. And so you trying to say,
you're an expert in investing in the stock market. I blocked,
I removed those people from my life because there don't say anything,
any interesting ideas. Uh, I said it, but, uh, uh, the,
you know, when you're doing legitimate investment, yes. Uh, that's,
that's a really important service to society.
But if you're commenting on the fundamentals of engineering problems,
that real engineers are trying to solve, that's not interesting to me the,
so it, that kind of stuff upsets, I think financial folks,
but the beautiful thing is when you have people buy vaporware and
you bring that vaporware to reality, that's the amazing thing. Yeah.
He will definitely bring that Roadster to reality. If he doesn't die,
that Roadster will happen. If he dies bail out now, same with it.
Same with that insane cyber truck.
Cyber Chuck is awesome. I it's so ridiculous.
If he lives long enough, you better believe there's humans being put on Mars,
whether it's him or he gets everybody else.
See that one.
I'm skeptical of just the type of people that are going to want to go.
Yeah.